# Hashing

This repo shows one way of achieving the Hashing/Hash Tables using open-addressing and quadratic probing. Learnt from part of the programming project for CS610 or CS435 with Alex G at N.J.I.T.

## Instructions

Instructions will be as to compile and run on the NJIT AFS servers' Linux.

### Compile

```bash
g++ -std=c++11 hashing.cpp -o hashing
```

### Run

```bash
./hashing fileOption1.txt
```

## PrP Description for Hashing
> 2 OPTION 1: Hashing ( 160 points)
We are asking you to implement a Lexicon structure to store arbitrarily long strings of ASCII chars (i.e.words). Lexicon `L` uses a Hash Table `T` structure along with an Array `A` of `NUL` separated words. In our case words are going to be English character words only (upper-case or lower case). Table `T` will be organized as a hash-table using collision-resolution by open-addressing as specified in class. You are going to use quadratic probing forh(k,i)and keep the choice of the quadratic function simple: `i**2` so that `h(k,i) = (h′(k)+i**2)modN`. The keys that you will hash are going to be English words. Thus function `h′(k)` is also going to be kept simple: the sum of the ASCII/Unicode values of the characters minus 2 mod`N`, where `N` is the number of slots of `T`. Thus `"alex"` is mapped to `97+108+101+120−2 modN` whatever `N` is. In the example below, for `N=11`, `h(alex,0) =6`. Table `T` however won't store key `k` in it. This is because the keys are of arbitrary length. Instead, `T` will store pointers/references in the form of an index to another array `A`. The second table, array `A` will be a character array and will store the words maintained in `T` separated by NUL values `\0`. This is not 2 characters a backslash followed by a zero. It is 1B (ASCII), 2B (UNICODE) whose all bits are set to 0, the NUL value. If you don't know what B is, it is a byte; read Handout 3. An insertion operation affects `T` and `A`. A word `w` is hashed, an available slot in `T` is computed and let that slot be `t`. In `T[t]` we store an index to table `A`. This index is the first location that stores the first character of `w`. The ending location is the `\0` following `w` in `A`. New words that do not exist (never inserted, or inserted but subsequently deleted) are appended in `A`. Thus originally you need to be wise enough in choosing the appropriate size of `A`. If at some point you run-out of space, you increase `T` and thus this increases `A` as well. Doubling `T` i.e. `N`, is an option. This causes problems that you also need to attend to. A deletion will modify `T` as needed but will not erase `w` from `A`. Let it be there. So `A` might get dirty (i.e. it contains garbage) after several deletions. If several operations later you end up inserting `w` after deleting it previously, you do it the insertion way and you reinsert `w`, even if a dirty copy of it might still be around. You DO NOT DO a linear search to find out if it exists arleady in `A`; it is inefficient. There is not much to say for a search. You need to support few more operations: `Print`, `Create`, `Empty`/`Full`/`Batch` with the last of those checking for an empty or full table/array and a mechanism to perform multiple operations in batch form. `Print` prints nicely `T` and its contents i.e. index values to `A`. In addition it prints nicely (linear-wise in oneline) the contents of `A`. (For a `\0` you will do the SEMI obvious: print a backslash but not its zero). The intent of `Print` is to assist the grader. `Print` however does not print the words of `A` for deleted words. It prints stars for every character of a deleted word instead. (An alternative is that during deletion each such character has already been turned into a star.) Function `Create` creates `T` with `N` slots, and `A` with `15N` chars and initializes `A` to spaces. We call a class that supports and realizes `A` and `T` a `lexicon`: `L` is one instance of a lexicon. Your code should thus implement as functions minimally the functions mentioned above: `Create`, `Print`, `Empty`, `Full`, `Batch`, `Insert`, `Delete`, `Search`. Testing utilizes a `Batch` function with argument a filename that is going to be provided as a commandline argument. That file consists of multiple lines containing one command per line. An example file is provided in Section B of the course web-page related to the example below. Each command is a numeric equivalent of the function named earlier plus one more (for comment). Command 10 is `Insert`, Command 11 is `Deletion`, and Command 12 is `Search`. Command 13 is `Print`, Command 14 is `Create`. Command 15 is `Comment`: the rest of the line marked by a 15 is ignored. Command 14 for `Create` has an argument which is the value of `N`. Each one of 10, 11, and 12 has an argument which is a string.